---
layout: post
title: Week 1: Exploring the World of Open Source
---

Initially, my understanding of “open source” was that it referred to free and transparent software, meaning anyone can view its source code. Additionally, I understood that open source revolved around collaboration, as many of my peers and mentors have advised me previously to contribute to open source projects. However, I had no idea how to contribute, which is one of the main reasons I decided to take this class. I wanted to learn more about the process required to make a contribution and how to contribute effectively.

From the first day of class, I realized that this process requires much more than simply finding and fixing a bug. A crucial aspect of open source projects is communicating with the community. This emphasis on communication is an advantage because it provides a variety of perspectives and ideas that can improve the project's development. Another advantage is the transparency of open source projects, which allows users to view the code of the software they use and understand its mechanism.

Although there are many advantages to open source projects, it is important to be aware of the potential problems that can arise, such as security issues. Since the source code is available to be viewed, any loopholes or vulnerabilities in the software can be discovered and potentially be exploited by hackers. Furthermore, open source can sometimes be less user-friendly because these projects are developed by a diverse group of people who may have different design approaches and design experiences. In these cases, closed software may have the advantage because it can be more secure. After all, just no one can see the code. Also, it can be more user-friendly because the same company is generally developing it.

On a brighter note, open source projects are popular and widely used. Last semester, I frequently used React, which is maintained by Meta, to create reusable components and dynamic user interfaces. Also, I use Python because it's faster and easier for coding assessments and data analysis. Moreover, I use Git for version control to keep track of all the changes I made to my project and have backups. Of course, I will always remember Wikipedia, which has been so helpful in always providing quick summaries of complex topics.

Finishing off, I have provided only a few examples of open-source projects I used. But the world of open source is so big, and many projects like Apache, Visual Studio Code, and Firefox are worth checking out. Through this class, I hope to discover more projects and participate in the open source community.
