---
layout: post
title: Week 2 - A Closer Look at Codes of Conducts
---

## Code of Conduct Activity

Reading Go’s [Community Code of Conduct](https://go.dev/conduct) made a strong impression on me, making me feel welcomed and comfortable to contribute to their community. From the start, Go shows that it is committed to creating a friendly environment by emphasizing respect and inclusiveness for all contributors. They don’t simply just outline their code of conduct’s standards, responsibilities, and consequences, rather they prioritize explaining its goal and purpose. Moreover, they also highlight Go’s Gopher values with clear examples to ensure that contributors understand their expected behavior and minimize any ambiguity. Overall, I think all open source projects would benefit from this document because it shows that a project cares about creating a welcoming and inclusive environment. It provides clear guidelines and expectations of acceptable behavior, which could reduce misunderstandings and conflicts that can disrupt the collaboration and progress of the project. 

<!--more--> 

Fortunately, I also had the chance to read the Contributor Covenant [code of conduct](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct/). I noticed a lot of similarities between this code of conduct and Go's [code of conduct](https://go.dev/conduct), but I also noticed two main differences. One main difference is that the Contributor Covenant code of conduct is used as a template for creating a code of conduct for open source projects, and this made its code of conduct more general and broad than Go's specific code of conduct. Secondly, another difference I noticed is that the Covenant code of conduct has a section called "Enforcement," which briefly discusses reporting unacceptable behavior and the consequences given to project maintainers who do not uphold the Code of Conduct. Meanwhile, Go's code of conduct has a more extensive "Conflict Resolution" section, which provides specific procedures for handling conflicts, such as when reports should be made directly to the Go Project Stewards. Lastly, Go is very clear on how they would handle the situation and the consequences they may take for someone who has violated the code of conduct. Go could have done this to ensure a standard resolution process, fairness, and transparency. Doing this helps build trust and equality in the community, which helps create a positive environment for their project.

As I continued my journey to reading more codes of conduct, I discovered the code of conduct of Eclipse, an IDE widely used for developing Java applications. Unlike Go's [code of conduct](https://go.dev/conduct), Eclipse's [code of conduct](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php) differs in content. This may be because Eclipse has been a more long-standing project under the open source license since 2001, while Go was released as open-source in 2009. As a result, Eclipse could have a broader and more diverse community, which is why they address their community in the code of conduct to include community members, contributors, committers, and project leads. Whereas Go's code of conduct mainly addresses the contributors and maintainers. Moreover, Eclipse's code of conduct has a different structure because it is a more complex project than Go. Eclipse is an IDE that can support multiple languages and offers a wide range of tools, including some for source control like Git and Go is a statically typed programming language.

Out of all the codes of conduct I read this week, the [code of conduct](https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Legal/Code_of_Conduct) document for the Sugar Labs project is by far the most different. This document differs because it is based on another code of conduct called the Ubuntu [code of conduct](https://ubuntu.com/community/governance/code-of-conduct). Additionally, it addresses a different audience, which was not discussed in Go's code of conduct: children. This is because Sugar Labs is an open source software learning platform for children to learn and collaborate. The language in this code of conduct is more tailored towards children as it includes much more straightforward language and friendlier tones. It also addresses more appropriate violations for children, like watching their language. Meanwhile, Go's code of conduct addresses a different range of issues centered on discrimination, sexual harassment, and any behavior considered inappropriate in the professional world.

Now for React, a javascript library I use, I found its [code of conduct](https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md), and it has adopted the Contributor Covenant [code of conduct](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct/), which is the first template we looked at. The only change in React's code of conduct is that it has an additional sentence in the "Scope" section to address its applicability outside the project spaces. Everything else in the code of conduct remained the same for the most part. Even though React adopted this code of conduct, which is centered on creating a welcoming environment that fosters inclusivity, this is similar to the Ubuntu [code of conduct](https://ubuntu.com/community/governance/code-of-conduct), which emphasizes creating a supportive and diverse community environment.  



## Experience Working on an Add-On Project

This was my first time working on an **Add-On** project. It was an interesting experience because I am not used to using JavaScript, and I had never made an extension before, so the first task of creating and installing a Firefox extension was a bit scary. Although the code was provided, I found it challenging to read through the documentation and understand what was going on in the steps to create this extension. However, I enjoyed working with my team and figuring out how to do things together, which made it fun and less challenging. Currently, my team and I are still working on part 5, and hopefully, soon, we will come up with an idea for our extension. 
